What's the point of having GitHub?
What is the real world use case for GitHub?
At the end of the day, GitHub will have some sort of repository where the application code for your
project will be stored and any time any code changes in that repository.
Some sort of DevOps tool will pick up the changes and then deploy it in cloud and run your application.
Now, how does that happen behind the scene?
How does Jenkins know that something has been changed in your GitHub repository?
So one approach is Jenkins can keep on invoking GitHub API every few seconds or every few minutes and
check if anything is changed in your repository.
And if something is changed indeed, then they can grab the changes and deploy the change into a OS.
But this method is not efficient because most of the times this API will return stale data and GitHub
server will be bombarded with this kind of API requests.
And the applications such as Jenkins will exceed the API limits depending on how frequently they are
calling this API.
So to solve this, we use Webhook.
What is a webhook?
Instead of jenkins calling the API to the github multiple times in a periodic manner.
GitHub will let Jenkins know when there is a change in the repository and you can determine what kind
of changes will trigger this webhook.
And once Jenkins gets notified, Jenkins job will run with the modified file and deploy the changes
into NWS.
So Webhook is a post call to your application such as Jenkins.
If repository changes and you can determine what kind of changes will trigger this webhook.
It is lightweight and real time, even though I showed just Jenkins in the previous slide.
But you can integrate GitHub with multiple other applications beyond Jenkins such as Discord, Slack,
NWS, code pipeline, and any and all DevOps tools.
All right, so in the next demo, let's see how we can use this GitHub webhook to integrate with Jenkins.